---
layout: documentation
title: "Bastion: i18n"
sidebar: sidebars/developer_guide.html
---

# i18n

Internationalization is handled through the use of an angular-gettext (https://github.com/rubenv/angular-gettext).  Strings are marked for translation, extracted into a .pot file, translated, and then compiled into an angular object from the resulting .po files.  To mark a string for translation within an angular template:

```html
<h1 translate>My Header</h1>
```

Full interpolation support is available so the following will work:

```html
<h1 translate>My {{type}} Header</h1>
```

Plurals are also supported:

```html
<span translate translate-n="count" translate-plural="There are {{count}} messages">There is {{count}} message</a>
```

There is also a filter available.  Use this only when you cannot use the above version.  Some times you may need to use the filter version include when translating HTML attributes and when other directives conflict with the translate directive.  Syntax follows:

```html
<input type="text" placeholder="{{ 'Username' | translate }}" />
```

To mark strings for translation in javascript files use the injectable `translate()`.  This method marks the string for translation while also returning the translated string from the translation angular object.

```javascript
var translatedString = translate('String to translate');
```

To extract strings into a .pot file for translation run:

```bash
grunt i18n:extract
```

To create an angular object from translated .po files run:

```bash
grunt i18n:compile
```

## i18n workflow

1. Developers write a bunch of code, being sure to use the translate directive to mark strings for translation.
1. We have a string freeze close to our release.
1. A developer runs grunt i18n:extract to generate the application's .pot file and checks it into source control.
1. Either we point our translators at our github repository or provide them the .pot file.
1. The translators create .po files for each language and either send them back or open a PR with them.
1. Once the .po files are checked into source control a developer runs grunt i18n:compile which creates a javascript file that angular will use to populate the translations based on the user's locale.
